#labels draft
= Terms =

 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/identifiedBy identifiedBy]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/dateIdentified dateIdentified]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/identificationQualifier identificationQualifier]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/identificationRemarks identificationRemarks]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/identificationReferences identificationReferences]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/identificationVerificationStatus identificationVerificationStatus]
 * [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/previousIdentifications previousIdentifications]

= Recommendations =

One of the greatest reasons to capture specimen data and make it accessible is to facilitate/encourage determinations. Here, we are using determination as a more general concept which encompasses identifications, type status, publication, etc. (i.e., anything that can be determined about a specimen). It is generally accepted that capturing some or all determinations on a specimen has value beyond the common practice of only capturing the label name and the most recent identification. Thus, we are recommending an identification extension to allow these valuable relationships to be captured. Please note that we do not consider typification information to be an identification as is suggested by the inclusion of a "typeStatus" in the GBIF extension cited below. Type information in DwC is associated with the specimen and the recommendation for its use is found here: [http://code.google.com/p/applecore/wiki/TypeStatus TypeStatus]

Identification extension: http://rs.gbif.org/extension/dwc/identification.xml

== identificationOrder (NEW)==
{JM: This is a new term, correct? This does not exist in the extension, either. Should we recommend its addition to the extension also/instead?}
 * Add identificationOrder to DwC: "1" is first identification (on label; typically by collector), "Nth" is the most recent identification.
 * Populate [http://code.google.com/p/applecore/wiki/ScientificName scientificName] with the most recent identification ("Nth"), or the "filed-as" name, even if you have populated the identification extension!

== identifiedBy ==

 * Same rules as for [http://code.google.com/p/applecore/wiki/Collectors collectors]

== dateIdentified ==

 * same rules as for [http://code.google.com/p/applecore/wiki/CollectionDate eventDate or verbatimEventDate] 

== identificationQualifier ==

 * Controlled vocabulary: some terms and definitions from Bridson, D., & Forman, L. (Eds.). (1999). The Herbarium Handbook (3rd ed.). Kew: Royal Botanic Gardens.

 * These terms "qualify" the identification found in [http://code.google.com/p/applecore/wiki/ScientificName scientificName].

|| abbreviation || latin || english || definition ||
|| cf. || confer || compare || Implies that the specimen does not exactly match the species but should be compared with it. ||
|| aff. || affinis || affinity || Related to (or bordering). Implies that the specimen does not exactly match the species but is related to it. ||
|| ? ||  || unknown ||
|| sensu stricto ||  || strict sense ||
|| sensu lato ||  || broad sense ||
|| nom. nud. ||  ||  ||
|| ined. ||  ||  ||
|| forsan ||  ||  ||
|| haud. ||  ||  ||
|| not as ||  ||  ||
|| stet! ||  || I agree || Does this belong in this list? ||

Example from DwC comment for [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/index.htm#identificationQualifier identificationQualifier]: "For the determination "Quercus aff. agrifolia var. oxyadenia", identificationQualifier would be "aff. agrifolia var. oxyadenia" with accompanying values "Quercus" in genus, "agrifolia" in specificEpithet, "oxyadenia" in infraspecificEpithet, and "var." in rank. 2) For the determination "Quercus agrifolia cf. var. oxyadenia", identificationQualifier would be "cf. var. oxyadenia " with accompanying values "Quercus" in genus, "agrifolia" in specificEpithet, "oxyadenia" in infraspecificEpithet, and "var." in rank."

== identificationRemarks ==

 * Should apply to that identification only.
 * Not structured = verbatim.
 * Any interpretation of that field in [square brackets].

== identificationReferences ==

 * Flora used for identification
 * Reference is unstructured.
 * Different references separated by "|" or "; "
 * Any interpretation of that field in [square brackets].

== nameAccordingTo ==

 * Reference for this name

== vernacularName ==

Problematic, only one name can be shared + no language.

== taxonRemarks, taxonomicStatus, nomenclaturalStatus ==

Maybe useful for types?

== previousIdentifications ==

 * Provide identifications in order: oldest to newest
 * Different identifications separated by "|" or "; "
 * Try to order the fields in a consistent way, e.g. scientific name; person; date; remarks. Use a different delimiter for the fields and the identifications

= Examples =